[{'chap01': 'A scandal in bohemia', 'content': ['To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman. I have seldom heard him
mention her under any other name. In his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt
any emotion akin to love for Irene Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but
admirably balanced mind. He was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but
as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position. He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a
sneer. They were admirable things for the observer—excellent for drawing the veil from men’s motives and actions. But for
the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a
distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results. Grit in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in
one of his own high-power lenses, would not be more disturbing than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. And yet
there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.', 'I had seen
little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away from each other. My own complete happiness, and the home-centred
interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb
all my attention, while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings
in Baker Street, buried among his old books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition, the
drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature. He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study
of crime, and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues, and
clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police. From time to time I heard some
vague account of his doings: of his summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up of the
singular tragedy of the Atkinson brothers at Trincomalee, and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so
delicately and successfully for the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which I
merely shared with all the readers of the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.', 'One night—it
was on the twentieth of March, 1888—I was returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now returned to civil
practice), when my way led me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-remembered door, which must always be associated
in my mind with my wooing, and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was seized with a keen desire to see
Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers. His rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I
looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly,
eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him. To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his
attitude and manner told their own story. He was at work again. He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot
upon the scent of some new problem. I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own
', 'His manner was not effusive. It seldom was; but he was glad, I think, to see me. With hardly a word spoken, but with a
kindly eye, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the
corner. Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.']}, {'chap02': 'The
red-headed league', 'content': ['I had called upon my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, one day in the autumn of last year and
found him in deep conversation with a very stout, florid-faced, elderly gentleman with fiery red hair. With an apology for
my intrusion, I was about to withdraw when Holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me.', '“You
could not possibly have come at a better time, my dear Watson,” he said cordially.', '“I was afraid that you were engaged.
', '“So I am. Very much so.”']}, {'chap03': 'A case of identity', 'content': ['“My dear fellow,” said Sherlock Holmes as
we sat on either side of the fire in his lodgings at Baker Street, “life is infinitely stranger than anything which the
mind of man could invent. We would not dare to conceive the things which are really mere commonplaces of existence. If we
could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great city, gently remove the roofs, and peep in at the queer
things which are going on, the strange coincidences, the plannings, the cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events,
working through generations, and leading to the most outrÃ© results, it would make all fiction with its conventionalities
and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable.”', '“And yet I am not convinced of it,” I answered. “The cases which
come to light in the papers are, as a rule, bald enough, and vulgar enough. We have in our police reports realism pushed
to its extreme limits, and yet the result is, it must be confessed, neither fascinating nor artistic.”', '“A certain
selection and discretion must be used in producing a realistic effect,” remarked Holmes. “This is wanting in the police
report, where more stress is laid, perhaps, upon the platitudes of the magistrate than upon the details, which to an
observer contain the vital essence of the whole matter. Depend upon it, there is nothing so unnatural as the commonplace.
', 'I smiled and shook my head. “I can quite understand your thinking so,” I said. “Of course, in your position of
unofficial adviser and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled, throughout three continents, you are brought in
contact with all that is strange and bizarre. But here”—I picked up the morning paper from the ground—“let us put it to a
practical test. Here is the first heading upon which I come. ‘A husband’s cruelty to his wife.’ There is half a column of
print, but I know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me. There is, of course, the other woman, the
drink, the push, the blow, the bruise, the sympathetic sister or landlady. The crudest of writers could invent nothing
more crude.”']}, {'chap04': 'The boscombe valley mystery', 'content': ['We were seated at breakfast one morning, my wife
and I, when the maid brought in a telegram. It was from Sherlock Holmes and ran in this way:', '“Have you a couple of days
to spare? Have just been wired for from the west of England in connection with Boscombe Valley tragedy. Shall be glad if
you will come with me. Air and scenery perfect. Leave Paddington by the 11:15.”', '“What do you say, dear?” said my wife,
looking across at me. “Will you go?”', '“I really don’t know what to say. I have a fairly long list at present.”']},
{'chap05': 'The five orange pips', 'content': ['When I glance over my notes and records of the Sherlock Holmes cases
between the years ’82 and ’90, I am faced by so many which present strange and interesting features that it is no easy
matter to know which to choose and which to leave. Some, however, have already gained publicity through the papers, and
others have not offered a field for those peculiar qualities which my friend possessed in so high a degree, and which it
is the object of these papers to illustrate. Some, too, have baffled his analytical skill, and would be, as narratives,
beginnings without an ending, while others have been but partially cleared up, and have their explanations founded rather
upon conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to him. There is, however, one of these
last which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its results that I am tempted to give some account of it
in spite of the fact that there are points in connection with it which never have been, and probably never will be,
entirely cleared up.', 'The year ’87 furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or less interest, of which I
retain the records. Among my headings under this one twelve months I find an account of the adventure of the Paradol
Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant Society, who held a luxurious club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse, of the
facts connected with the loss of the British barque Sophy Anderson, of the singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in
the island of Uffa, and finally of the Camberwell poisoning case. In the latter, as may be remembered, Sherlock Holmes was
able, by winding up the dead man’s watch, to prove that it had been wound up two hours before, and that therefore the
deceased had gone to bed within that time—a deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case. All
these I may sketch out at some future date, but none of them present such singular features as the strange train of
circumstances which I have now taken up my pen to describe.', 'It was in the latter days of September, and the equinoctial
gales had set in with exceptional violence. All day the wind had screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows, so
that even here in the heart of great, hand-made London we were forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine
of life and to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his
civilisation, like untamed beasts in a cage. As evening drew in, the storm grew higher and louder, and the wind cried and
sobbed like a child in the chimney. Sherlock Holmes sat moodily at one side of the fireplace cross-indexing his records of
crime, while I at the other was deep in one of Clark Russell’s fine sea-stories until the howl of the gale from without
seemed to blend with the text, and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves. My wife
was on a visit to her mother’s, and for a few days I was a dweller once more in my old quarters at Baker Street.', '“Why,”
said I, glancing up at my companion, “that was surely the bell. Who could come to-night? Some friend of yours, perhaps?
']}, {'chap06': 'The man with the twisted lip', 'content': ['Isa Whitney, brother of the late Elias Whitney, D.D.,
Principal of the Theological College of St. George’s, was much addicted to opium. The habit grew upon him, as I
understand, from some foolish freak when he was at college; for having read De Quincey’s description of his dreams and
sensations, he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects. He found, as so many more
have done, that the practice is easier to attain than to get rid of, and for many years he continued to be a slave to the
drug, an object of mingled horror and pity to his friends and relatives. I can see him now, with yellow, pasty face,
drooping lids, and pin-point pupils, all huddled in a chair, the wreck and ruin of a noble man.', 'One night—it was in
June, ’89—there came a ring to my bell, about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock. I sat up
in my chair, and my wife laid her needle-work down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment.', '“A patient!”
said she. “You’ll have to go out.”', 'I groaned, for I was newly come back from a weary day.']}, {'chap07': 'The adventure
of the blue carbuncle', 'content': ['I had called upon my friend Sherlock Holmes upon the second morning after Christmas,
with the intention of wishing him the compliments of the season. He was lounging upon the sofa in a purple dressing-gown,
a pipe-rack within his reach upon the right, and a pile of crumpled morning papers, evidently newly studied, near at hand.
Beside the couch was a wooden chair, and on the angle of the back hung a very seedy and disreputable hard-felt hat, much
the worse for wear, and cracked in several places. A lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that
the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination.', '“You are engaged,” said I; “perhaps I
interrupt you.”', '“Not at all. I am glad to have a friend with whom I can discuss my results. The matter is a perfectly
trivial one”—he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat—“but there are points in connection with it which are not
entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction.”', 'I seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his
crackling fire, for a sharp frost had set in, and the windows were thick with the ice crystals. “I suppose,” I remarked,
“that, homely as it looks, this thing has some deadly story linked on to it—that it is the clue which will guide you in
the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime.”']}, {'chap08': 'The adventure of the speckled band',
'content': ['On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have during the last eight years studied the
methods of my friend Sherlock Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number merely strange, but none commonplace;
for, working as he did rather for the love of his art than for the acquirement of wealth, he refused to associate himself
with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual, and even the fantastic. Of all these varied cases, however,
I cannot recall any which presented more singular features than that which was associated with the well-known Surrey
family of the Roylotts of Stoke Moran. The events in question occurred in the early days of my association with Holmes,
when we were sharing rooms as bachelors in Baker Street. It is possible that I might have placed them upon record before,
but a promise of secrecy was made at the time, from which I have only been freed during the last month by the untimely
death of the lady to whom the pledge was given. It is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light, for I have
reasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the death of Dr. Grimesby Roylott which tend to make the matter
even more terrible than the truth.', 'It was early in April in the year ’83 that I woke one morning to find Sherlock
Holmes standing, fully dressed, by the side of my bed. He was a late riser, as a rule, and as the clock on the mantelpiece
showed me that it was only a quarter-past seven, I blinked up at him in some surprise, and perhaps just a little
resentment, for I was myself regular in my habits.', '“Very sorry to knock you up, Watson,” said he, “but it’s the common
lot this morning. Mrs. Hudson has been knocked up, she retorted upon me, and I on you.”', '“What is it, then—a fire?”']},
{'chap09': 'The adventure of the engineer’s thumb', 'content': ['Of all the problems which have been submitted to my
friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, for solution during the years of our intimacy, there were only two which I was the means of
introducing to his notice—that of Mr. Hatherley’s thumb, and that of Colonel Warburton’s madness. Of these the latter may
have afforded a finer field for an acute and original observer, but the other was so strange in its inception and so
dramatic in its details that it may be the more worthy of being placed upon record, even if it gave my friend fewer
openings for those deductive methods of reasoning by which he achieved such remarkable results. The story has, I believe,
been told more than once in the newspapers, but, like all such narratives, its effect is much less striking when set forth
en bloc in a single half-column of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes, and the mystery clears
gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth. At the time the circumstances
made a deep impression upon me, and the lapse of two years has hardly served to weaken the effect.', 'It was in the summer
of ’89, not long after my marriage, that the events occurred which I am now about to summarise. I had returned to civil
practice and had finally abandoned Holmes in his Baker Street rooms, although I continually visited him and occasionally
even persuaded him to forgo his Bohemian habits so far as to come and visit us. My practice had steadily increased, and as
I happened to live at no very great distance from Paddington Station, I got a few patients from among the officials. One
of these, whom I had cured of a painful and lingering disease, was never weary of advertising my virtues and of
endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence.', 'One morning, at a little before seven
o’clock, I was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from Paddington and were waiting
in the consulting-room. I dressed hurriedly, for I knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial, and hastened
downstairs. As I descended, my old ally, the guard, came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him.', '“I’ve
got him here,” he whispered, jerking his thumb over his shoulder; “he’s all right.”']}, {'chap10': 'The adventure of the
noble bachelor', 'content': ['The Lord St. Simon marriage, and its curious termination, have long ceased to be a subject
of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves. Fresh scandals have eclipsed it, and their
more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this four-year-old drama. As I have reason to believe, however, that
the full facts have never been revealed to the general public, and as my friend Sherlock Holmes had a considerable share
in clearing the matter up, I feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of this remarkable
episode.', 'It was a few weeks before my own marriage, during the days when I was still sharing rooms with Holmes in Baker
Street, that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him. I had remained indoors
all day, for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain, with high autumnal winds, and the jezail bullet which I had
brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my Afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence. With my body in one
easy-chair and my legs upon another, I had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last, saturated with the
news of the day, I tossed them all aside and lay listless, watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the
table and wondering lazily who my friend’s noble correspondent could be.', '“Here is a very fashionable epistle,” I
remarked as he entered. “Your morning letters, if I remember right, were from a fish-monger and a tide-waiter.”', '“Yes,
my correspondence has certainly the charm of variety,” he answered, smiling, “and the humbler are usually the more
interesting. This looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie.
']}, {'chap11': 'The adventure of the beryl coronet', 'content': ['“Holmes,” said I as I stood one morning in our
bow-window looking down the street, “here is a madman coming along. It seems rather sad that his relatives should allow
him to come out alone.”', 'My friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his
dressing-gown, looking over my shoulder. It was a bright, crisp February morning, and the snow of the day before still lay
deep upon the ground, shimmering brightly in the wintry sun. Down the centre of Baker Street it had been ploughed into a
brown crumbly band by the traffic, but at either side and on the heaped-up edges of the footpaths it still lay as white as
when it fell. The grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped, but was still dangerously slippery, so that there were fewer
passengers than usual. Indeed, from the direction of the Metropolitan Station no one was coming save the single gentleman
whose eccentric conduct had drawn my attention.', 'He was a man of about fifty, tall, portly, and imposing, with a
massive, strongly marked face and a commanding figure. He was dressed in a sombre yet rich style, in black frock-coat,
shining hat, neat brown gaiters, and well-cut pearl-grey trousers. Yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity
of his dress and features, for he was running hard, with occasional little springs, such as a weary man gives who is
little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs. As he ran he jerked his hands up and down, waggled his head, and writhed
his face into the most extraordinary contortions.', '“What on earth can be the matter with him?” I asked. “He is looking
up at the numbers of the houses.”']}, {'chap12': 'The adventure of the copper beeches', 'content': ['“To the man who loves
art for its own sake,” remarked Sherlock Holmes, tossing aside the advertisement sheet of The Daily Telegraph, “it is
frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived. It is pleasant
to me to observe, Watson, that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little records of our cases which you have
been good enough to draw up, and, I am bound to say, occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence not so much to
the many causes cÃ©lÃ¨bres and sensational trials in which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have
been trivial in themselves, but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which I
have made my special province.”', '“And yet,” said I, smiling, “I cannot quite hold myself absolved from the charge of
sensationalism which has been urged against my records.”', '“You have erred, perhaps,” he observed, taking up a glowing
cinder with the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont to replace his clay when he was in a
disputatious rather than a meditative mood—“you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and life into each of your
statements instead of confining yourself to the task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect
which is really the only notable feature about the thing.”', '“It seems to me that I have done you full justice in the
matter,” I remarked with some coldness, for I was repelled by the egotism which I had more than once observed to be a
strong factor in my friend’s singular character.']}]